C Basics:

C Compiler
C compiler is a software that translates human-readable C language code into machine code or an intermediate code that can be executed by a computer’s central processing unit (CPU).

There are many C compilers available in the market, such as GNU Compiler Collection (GCC), Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler, Clang, Intel C++ Compiler, and TinyCC (TCC).

For this tutorial, we will be using the GNU-based online C compiler provided by GeeksforGeeks which is developed for beginners and is very easy to use compared to other compiler/IDE’s available on the web.

Print Hello World using C Programming

#include <stdio.h>
 
int main() {
printf("Hello World! I Don't Give a Bug");
return 0;
}
Output

Hello World! I Don't Give a Bug
“Give this C code a try, and here’s a fun challenge: print ‘Hello World’ along with your name!”

Features of C Language
There are some key features of C language that show the ability and power of C language:

Simplicity and Efficiency: The simple syntax and structured approach make the C language easy to learn.
Fast Speed: C is one of the fastest programming language because C is a static programming language, which is faster than dynamic languages like Java and Python. C is also a compiler-based which is the reason for faster code compilation and execution.
Portable: C provides the feature that you write code once and run it anywhere on any computer. It shows the machine-independent nature of the C language.
Memory Management: C provides lower level memory management using pointers and functions like realloc(), free(), etc.
Pointers: C comes with pointers. Through pointers, we can directly access or interact with the memory. We can initialize a pointer as an array, variables, etc.
Structured Language: C provides the features of structural programming that allows you to code into different parts using functions which can be stored as libraries for reusability.
Applications of C Language
C was used in programs that were used in making operating systems. C was known as a system development language because the code written in C runs as fast as the code written in assembly language.

The use of C is given below:

Operating Systems
Language Compilers
Assemblers
Text Editors
Print Spoolers
Network Drivers
Modern Programs
Databases
Language Interpreters
Utilities
